# Commit Message Guidelines

Structure your git commit message as follows:

```
Short summary of changes. PROJ-1234

A longer description that goes into more detail about
the nature of this commit. Describe not just the *what*
of the changes, but also the *why*, particularly if that
isn't already covered in the associated case.

Multiple paragraphs can be used if this is a complicated
commit.
```

The first line should be a short summary of the commit that also includes the JIRA issue ID that this commit is resolving. Use the format *PROJ-nnn* when specifying an issue. (Each git repo should be set up with a hook to link to JIRA.)

The first line will be used by many git tools when summarizing a series of commits, so it should stand alone.

Explain the reason for the changes, and not just what was done. It's easy for an experienced programmer to look at the diffs in the future and see *what* was changed, but it can be very difficult to figure out *why* it was changed. In many cases, simply linking to a Jira case is sufficient to explain the "why"; other times, a more detailed explanation in the commit comment is required.

Use correct spelling and grammar; don't be "cute".

When technical details or an extended explanation are required, add additional paragraphs (separated by blank lines) to your commit message. If this commit fixes a tricky bug, summarize the conditions under which the bug occurred, and how this commit addresses them, especially if the fix is unusual or the bug is uncommon. (Even better, commit a test case at the same time that reproduces the bug and verifies the fix you have added.)

Consider starting your commit message with an imperative verb (“Fix bug”, not “Fixed bug.”). This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

## Bad Examples

```
Minor changes.
```

```
Im in ur c0dez, fixin yr bugz
```

```
Added INewInterface. Bug ID: 1234. Fixed crash in log in screen, Bug ID: 1236. Refactored AppManager
class. Code cleanup. Enabled logging in Debug builds (Bug ID: 2048).
```

*This kind of message is indicative of waiting too long to commit; instead of bundling up an unrelated group of changes, commit each separate "work unit" as it's completed.*

*If this commit does really resolve two Jira cases with one fix, then resolve one case as a duplicate of the other, and specify the Bug ID of the primary case in the commit message.*

```
Code review for Feature X.
```

```
PR feedback
```

*Suggestions made during code review take many forms, ranging from pointing out bugs to requesting conformance to style guidance. In general, it's unnecessary to specify that a change is being made in response to code review—although if there is a Jira case pertaining to the review comments, it should be specified—just stick to what changed and why.*

## Good Examples

```
Implement the Widget Frobbing panel. PROJ-1234
```

```
Fix race condition with multi-threaded allocation.

On Windows XP SP3, the kernel doesn't guarantee that SomeMethod()
will only be executed by one thread at a time (see MSKB123456).
This implements the workaround from that article by using a
CRITICAL_SECTION to serialize all access to g_importantData.
```

## More Information

* [Describe Merge Commits Well](describe-merge-commits-well.md)
* [A Note About Git Commit Messages](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html)
* [Writing Good Commit Messages](https://github.com/erlang/otp/wiki/Writing-good-commit-messages)
* [StackOverflow discussion](https://web.archive.org/web/20170329044732/http://stackoverflow.com/questions/43598/suggestions-for-a-good-commit-message-format-guideline)
